Smart Meeting Automaton
Unified Project
Menu
About
Overview
Solution
Design/Progress
Budget
Contacts
SMART
MEETING
AUTOMATON
Find More
Solution for a Problem
We have seen some meeting rooms with working AC machines and projectors unnecessarily without anyone in the room, causing a wastage of current. In some cases, it is quite different that the AC machines are not working even almost all the room is filled.
Other than that, presence of a worker to the meeting venue at the time of meeting, is essential to control different devices of AC machines and projectors. This control process is sometimes complex as it has to be used various remote controllers to control different devices.
Our solution "SMART MEETING AUTOMATON" resolves almost all the things addressed here.
System Overview
SMART MEETING AUTOMATON consists of two major streams.
Client Application
Control Unit
These two streams are connected via AWS cloud.
Solution Architecture
Role of Main Control Unit
Local server on Raspberry Pi is updated automatically for every 10 minutes according to data on remote AWS server.
In case of Wi-Fi is disconnected, the Raspberry Pi storage can manage the operations.
Based on direction data of AC machines, projectors, server motors rotates.
Role of Extending Unit (Optional)
Receive signals from Main Control Unit as Wi-Fi signals.
Give signals to AC machines, projectors as IR signals.
Entity Relationship Diagram
System has administrator persons
Administrators create accounts for users(Lecturers/meeting owners)
Administrators reserves lecture rooms/meeting rooms
Admins figure out how to control devices in meeting room/lecture room
Devices within meeting rooms automatically operates according to schedules
Users can also control devices within the meeting room.(Via mobile app)
Front-end Software
Design Architecture
React
Dynamic content
React Hooks
AXIOS
Communication with the backend
Context API
State management
Mobile Application
Back-end Software
Node.js Express
Can build scalable, fast and non-blocking I-O backend server
MongoDB Atlas
Automatically scale increase cluster storage with the growth of data
Storage can be maximized with auto-scaling features
Security
Password hashing
Json Web Tokens(JWT) for user authorization
Authenticated local strategy using email and password
Authorization using JWT strategy to protect end points
Access tokens and refresh tokens for user identification
Data validation before sending them to database
Software Testing
Summary Report
Area of testing
What was tested
How was the test done ?
Purpose
Expected Results
Findings
Server
Login to the system
User needs to give correct username and password
Admin and user have separate authorization methods. So some route need to admin login it will check by The API (User or Admin that are logged in)
Token is given, if user logged successfully
Otherwise, anyone can not access the services of the system
Token is valid for 30 minutes. If a person knows this token within that time, he can access the system. (except for critical operations)
Server
Adding user to system and verify
User need to register for the system
Need freshly logging of admin
User needs the verification link that comes to email
After successfully adding, user needs to login again
User can be added to the system with an email verifification and only admin can add user
On success : When admin adds a user to the system, verification email is sent
New user can only login the system via that verification link
User is uniquely identified by the email
User is validated whether he has provided an correct email
Server
Adding room
Delete room
Delete user
Need admin fresh login (It expires within 5 mins)
These operations are allowed only for admin to avoid misbehaviours of the system
On success : Status code - 200
Failed operations : Status code - 401
Admin should verify his login with his password each time when he does these operations
Unit tests to verify outputs over inputs
Embedded Systems Testing
What to test ?
Why is it important ?
How will it be tested?
Admin can add a meeting rooms to the system.
When a control unit is established, he can add that meeting room to the system with devices giving all configuration data.
Checking whether configuration data is properly reached to the database and relevant hardware nodes.
Admin and users can add meeting schedules to the system
The devices within a meeting room work according to the given schedules.
Checking whether the projectors or ACs working properly according to schedules.
Devices work properly with the configured data given by system admins
The devices within a meeting room work according to the given config data.
Checking whether the projectors or ACs can work properly.
Hardware Designs
Main control unit consists of two major parts.
Base Part
It mainly consists of Raspberry Pi
Other components are LCD display, relay module, sockets to connect bulbs
Upper Cover Part
It has few sockets to connect IR transmittors
So that IR transmittors can be directed exactly towards the projector or AC
Extending Unit (Optional)
Base Part
It mainly consists of NodeMCU unit
It forwards the signals comming from main control unit to projectors or ACs
So that, we can give control signals for the devices, that can not be reached be main control unit
Circuit Designs
Schematic Designs
PCB Designs
Cloud Deployment
Budget Report
Find more details from our github project repository
Visit Now
Team Members
Visit Our github Accounts
Chamath Amarasinghe
Diwanga Amasith
Wishwa Madusanka
Email
e16022@eng.pdn.ac.lk
e16025@eng.pdn.ac.lk
e16222@eng.pdn.ac.lk
Advisors
Dr. Isuru Nawinne
Mr. Ziyan Marikkar
Essential Links
Department of Computer Engineering
Faculty of Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Copyright © Smart Meeting Automaton 2020