Smart Cradle
Home
Introduction
Solution Architecture
Software Design
Hardware Design
Security AND SAFETY
Testing
Budget
TimeLine
Team
Contact Us
Smart Cradle
"Because you and baby deserve care!"
PROBLEM
As we are very well familiar with the hurdles faced by Parents to nurture their infant and especially in case if both the Parents are working.
To give 24 hours of time in such cases is next to impossible.
However they still need to look after their babies,thereby increasing workload and stress.
They either send their babies to their parents or hire a baby caregiver while they are working.
Some parents worry about the safety of their babies in the care of others.Thus they go home to check on their babies during their free time,
such as lunch or tea break.
A baby Monitoring System that can monitor the babies' condition real time is proposed to solve these problems.
A baby monitoring System consisting of a vedio camera and microphone without limitations of coverage.It can send data and immediately notify the
parents about urgent situations,thereby shortening the time needed to handle such scenarios.
OUR SOLUTION
The proposed solution involves live monitoring of the child through a mobile application remotely.Noice Sensor for the detection of the child's
crying activity.When detect crying, cradle send a message to parent,plays a song.The Thermal sensor notifies the parent about the envioremental
temperature near the baby and switch on the fan automatically with temperature.
The proposed system uses the cloud service for remotely monitoring the child.
Learn more
SOLUTION ARCHITECTURE
There is a cry detection mechanism which detects cry of the baby and send instant mobile app notifications to the user, at the same time some music will be played to soothe the baby.User can use play music option using their mobile application according to their wish at any occation even if a cry is not detected in order to soothe the baby.
Using the temperature sensors, room temperature is delected and if it exceed 30 celcius ,mini fan will be turned on automatically.Turn on and off functions of the mini fan can be fully controled using the mobile application also according to the need of the user.Swing of the cradle is fully controlled by the Mobile application.
Central server(AWS ) is used to maintain a database to keep a track of registrations and logins.Whenever the user log in to the system, mobile application will conect to the server and verify authentications.
Hardware Control Flow
Software Control Flow
ER Diagram
EER Diagram
SOFTWARE DESIGN
Mobile application is designed in a more user friendly manner.Graphics and picture are used to repesent the functionalites/options of the smart cradle.This will clearly deliver the content to the user and they can easily navigate to their requirements without much frustration.
Basic functionaites of the mobile application:
Monitor the baby
Swing the Cradle
Check the room temperature
Play Music
Switch on the Fan
Get Notifications
User have to first register giving their basic information,thereafter whenever they use the application,
they can login giving their user name and the passward.This will assure our users that their information is protected and secure.
Since real time visual monitoring of the baby option is available in the mobile application, assuring the privacy of the users as well as thier babies is more important.
Because of high protection over the all the user information and the passwords,users can be make user that no unauthorized person can see their baby and no third party people can access the control of the smart cradle
UI Design
Front End Validation
All the user inputs are checked before sending them to the server
SignUp and Login
When adding, removing and selecting a device
Backend Validation
Alert Boxes are displayed according to the resposnses recieved from the server
SignUp
Login
Select a device
Music
Swing
Settings
Add a Device
Remove Device
Mobile App Demostration
Technologies used
HARDWARE DESIGN
Hardware Components
NodeMCU
GPIO pins + WIFI module inbuilt
Operating Voltage: 3.3V
Input Voltage: 7-12V
Flash Memory: 4 MB
SRAM: 64 KB
Clock Speed: 80 MHz
Sound sensor
Operating Voltage: 3.3V to 5V DC
LM393 comparator with threshold prest
Induction distance: 0.5 Meter
Operating current:
4~5 mA
Microphone Sensitivity (1kHz): 52 to 48 dB
Small, cheap and easily available
Motor Driver
Power Supply: DC 5 V - 35 V
Operating current range: 0 ~ 36mA
On-board +5V regulated Output supply
Thermal sensor
Working voltage: DC 3.3-5V
can measure : -55°C to 150°C
±0.5°C
Accuracy
Drain current is less than 60uA
Low cost temperature sensor
Small and hence suitable for remote applications
Servo Motor
Torque: 5.5kg/cm (at 4.8V)
Working Voltage: 4.8V-6V
Current Usage: <1000mA
Camera Shield
Voltage: 2.5V to 3.0V
Lens Size: 1/6" , Vision Angle: 25 degree
High sensitivity for low-light operation
Color saturation level auto adjust
Mini fan
DC Mode: 450 ~ 2150 RPM
Operating Voltage: DC 5V～13.2V
speaker
Schematic Circuit Diagram
PCB Design
3D Model
SECURITY AND SAFTY
When we consider about a product like cradle ,security and safety is the most important thing.Security features of this product
are achieved by using the above technologies.
AWS :
This is the cloud based serever that we use.We have choosen it ,because it provides secure services.
It uses certificates to authenticate machine to machine communication and provides policies to control the
actions of the devices.
Amazon RDS :
We create our own database server in cloud, and amzon RDS is the storage service that we use.We have choosen it because
it supports MySQL and it is secure.It uses data encryption to secure data.The data stored in the disk is encrypted.
The data which is transmited via the network is also encrypted.
JSON Web Token (JWT) : This is used for the authetication.Once the user login to the system the server sends this token to the user.
Passward Hashing : The orginal password is not stored in the database.Hashing performs a one-way
transformation on a passward, turning the passward into another string.
Sending JSON Web Token at the login.
Store hashed passwords in the MySQL database.
TESTING
POSTMAN is a scalable API testing tool.
HTTP requests that are sent to the server in each api call, are tested using this tools.
Mobile application testing is done using APPIUM
This enables testers to write test scripts against multiple platforms such as iOS and Android using the same API.
Flutter test package is used for unit testing
Front end validation is done using this
API testing with POSTMAN
Frontend And Backend Testing
Testing Summary
WHY we tested,
signup and login : It is important to make sure that the system is only accessible by authorized users with accurate user details.
add device and remove device : It is important to make sure that the ‘device’ and the ‘ownership’ tables in the database are correctly updated.
select device : It is important to make sure that the devices are
only accessible by their
owners.
swing , paly music ,fan , temperature monitor and settings : It is important to make sure that the basic functionalities of the mobile application are working properly
backend : It is important to make sure that the all API endpoints are working correctly.
BUDGET
TIMELINE
TEAM
Our Team Members
Madush Dilshan
E/17/040
Shashini Upekha
E/17/356
Hasara Wijesooriya
E/17/407
Our Advisors
Dr.Isuru Nawinne
Dr.Mahanama
Contact Us
University of Peradeniya.
Phone: +94 81 239 33 00
Email: vc@pdn.ac.lk
Web-site: http://www.pdn.ac.lk/
Faculty of Engineering.
Phone: +94 81 239 33 02
Web-site: http://eng.pdn.ac.lk/
Computer Engineering Department.
Phone: +94 81 239 39 14
Web-site: http://www.ce.pdn.ac.lk/
© Untitled. All rights reserved.Design: e17-3yp-Smart-Cradle_UOP