Smart Apartment Security System
Home
Introduction
Architecture
Design
Budget
Team
SAFENET
SMART APARTMENT SECURITY SYSTEM
Introduction
For years, the need to protect one’s property has become one of people’s
main concerns. The sense of security and protection is one of those feelings that makes us
comfortable and complements quality living. Although there are existing solutions for home
security like video surveillance cameras, alarms etc., they are very expensive, and the
installation process is also not easy. Most of the existing security system solutions
address the needs of the people who are living in private houses. But people who live in
apartments in urban areas have some added needs to be satisfied with a particular security
system. Therefore, addressing all these issues along with some added unique features we have
come up with the idea of a Smart Apartment Security System. Smart Apartment security system
is a system that secure entry points, like doors and windows, as well as interior spaces in
an apartment from a burglary or a fire by notifying the owners and security officer at the
apartment gate whenever a threat has been identified through a mobile application.
Solution Architecture
Mobile Application
An Android mobile application is available for
SafeHome security system to allow users to remotely monitor and control the security system.
Users are able to arm and disarm the system, get mobile alerts and contact the security
officer whenever a threat has been identified by the security system. Users can log in to
the mobile app anytime to view the status of sensors, activity logs for door locks and more
as well. The app is designed using Flutter.
Security System
The security system is used to identify
threats in the entry points and interior spaces of an apartment through sensors. It will
consist of wireless sensors(door and window sensors, motion sensors, smoke detector), a
siren and a smart door lock with fingerprint access for added security. ESP 32 development
board is used as the microcontroller of the door lock and ESP-01S WiFi modules are used for
wireless sensors.
Web Server
AWS server is used as the web server for the
SafeHome Security System. Signals from sensors are passed to the mobile application as well
as control information from mobile applications are passed to the smart door lock and
response mechanisms through this server. Database which is used to store sensor statuses and
logs of the system is hosted at the server.
Highlevel
Diagram
Infrastructure
Technologies
Frontend Development
As the front end development we use flutter as our front
end development software in this development process the
expectations are to provide user friendly and
interesting interface with enhanced UI and UX experience
to the client.Other than that cross platform support is
required for us to maintain the target clients by giving
them access to our services independant their mobile os
type.
Backend Development
In the backend server requires to handle a larger amount
of requests. Therefore the scalability and
sustainability if uncaught error exceptions happend are
critical points under choosing a optimum backend server.
For those requirements, Node js would be the best
solution for this project. Therefore the backend server
side requests managements are done by the NodeJs.
Cloud Deployment
Due to financial issues met in the process of developing
the physical server of maintaining cost. The team sole
decision and the academic guidance as well based on
cloud services. Therefore the cloud server deployment
was decieded. In that case the EC2 instance of AWS
server support is selected.
Database Development
For storing data puroposes' requirements were the
structured schema with the same type of data that have
the ability to contain all the details of the target
market when the product able to cover the whole market
itself. Also the data base should be able to scalable
from a smaller database. For these requirements are
fulfil when the chosen selection was Mysql. Because the
mysql have the ability contain 1000 different tables and
all our reqiurements are fulfilled under 1000 tables.
Also a table can record 21 million records with the
space under 1GB. The maximum row table will be our user
table but it will not exceed 21 million because the
targeted ordience is less.
Circuit Diagrams
Door Circuit Unit
Flame and PIR Sensor Unit
Window Sensor Unit
Schematic Diagrams
Hardware Design
Diagrams
ER Diagram
Relational Schema
Detailed Budget
Interfaces of Mobile Application
User Login Interface
The user can login here. He has to enter his email address
and password. Two factor authentication is used here.
Therefore, an OTP is sent to the relevant email address. If
the user doesn't have an account, he can sign up to the
system.
Security Officer Login Interface
The security officer can login here. He has to enter his
email address and password. Two factor authentication is
also used here.
Therefore, an OTP is sent to the relevant email address. The
registration of security officer is done by the
Administrator.
User Home Interface
The user can change the mode of house. If the user select
'Home Mode', the notifications wouldn't get when the motion,
door and winsow semsors are triggering.
There are 6 buttons in the home screen and user can go into
the relevent option.
User Registration Interface
The users can register here. The email address is verified
by sending OTP. Only the owner of the house can register to
the system.
Other members of the house can login with his user
credentials.
User Details Interface
The owner details can be seen here. The name and the phone
number can be changed
here.
Sensors' Details Interface
All the sensor details can be seen here.One button is to
deactivate the sensors and
other button is to give access to the
security officer to enter the house when there is a security
threat.
Layout Interface
The user can find the places of the sensors in the house
using the unique ID of
them.
Notification Interface
The notifications when the sensors are triggering, can be
seeen here. The date and
time are also there.
Contact Details Interface
The emergency contacts can be seen here. By pressing the
button, the user can calling to the
relevant person.
Security Officer Home Interface
There are 4 buttons. Using 'Front Door Sensors', SO can
find the front door of houses which he can access.
Sensor Details(SO) Interface
The status of all the sensors' of the apartment are showing
here.
The activate sensors of the apartment can be seen in red
color.
User Awaymode Interface
When the awaymode is activated, background color of the interface is changed blue to green and the sensors are not triggering
Interfaces of Administrator Web Application
Previous
Next
AWS Deployment
Previous
Next
Security
Security is the most important thing in the IT world right now.
In our solution, we have deeply considered the security point of view of our system.
We have developed our system with the help of the following techniques to enhance the
application security in our solution.
JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
Our application use JSON Web Tokens (JWT) to allow the client to indicate its identity for
further exchange after authentication. It is a self-contained way for securely transmitting
information between parties.
User Input validation
This prevents improperly formed data from entering an information system. Because it is
difficult to detect a malicious user who is trying to attack software, applications should
check and validate all input entered into a system specially in Resgistration and Login.
Input validation as a mitigation strategy for both SQL injection and XSS.
Two Factor Authentication
Used in Authentication is used in the Registration of the Mobile Application. When Email is
provided, OTP is sent to email address and user has to Enter that OTP for the registration.
Password Hashing
Password hashing is used in our application to verify the integrity of passwords, sent
during login, against the stored hash so that actual passwords never has to be stored. A
salt is added to the hashing process to force their uniqueness, increase their complexity
without increasing user requirements, and to mitigate password attacks like hash tables
AWS EC2 Security Groups
A custom security group is assigned to the instance where our application is deployed which
allows only http/tcp connections on port 80. Security groups offer protection at the ports
and protocol access level.
Testing Plan
Project Timeline
Link to Demonstrations
Our Team Members
Dananjaya Morais
E/17/212
Ishini Udara
E/17/312
Kanishka Dilhan
E/17/065
Our Advisors
Dr.Isuru Nawinne
Dr.Mahanama Wickramasinghe
University of Peradeniya.
Phone: +94 81 239 33 00
Email: vc@pdn.ac.lk
Web-site: http://www.pdn.ac.lk/
Faculty of Engineering.
Phone: +94 81 239 33 02
Web-site: http://eng.pdn.ac.lk/
Computer Engineering Department.
Phone: +94 81 239 39 14
Web-site: http://www.ce.pdn.ac.lk/
Github repo
Find more informations and
codes details.
Copyright 2019 All Right Reserved By Department of Computer Engineering/FOE/UOP