Attendance Marking System
Home
Solution
Services
Design
website
app
hardware device
Cloud Deployment
Testing
Software Testing
Hardware Testing
Demonstration
Budget
Future Developments
Contact
Computerized Timetabling And Attendance
Marking System
In this project,our goal is to develop a
modern attendance marking system that is suitable for
today's world.In parallel with the attendance marking system,a fully-fledged time table
managing
and lecture reminding system is developed.
Read
More
How things work?
On the registration day of the students,fingerprints and student details are taken and added to the
database using the website.A RFID token is registered for a student and given to them.Student can do
the registration via the website or mobile app.Before a particular class starts,corresponding
student details and fingerprint details are loaded into the sd card and fingerprint device with the
help of nodemcu & backend server for student identification purposes.when a particular student put
their attendance using fingerprint device and RFID sensor student details are displayed in the LCD
display.At the same time,new attendance data is sent to the backend.All timetable data is added to
the database and lecture reminding is automatically done by the server.Student and teachers are able
to analyze and visualize attendance data via the website or mobile app.
Services
Attendance marking System
Identifying the students in a lecture will be done by a hardware device which is in the
lecture rooms by fingerprints and rfid cards.Students can see they were identified correctly
in hardware device itself by seeing his information in the lcd screen.During the lecture
time attendance details will be sent to the server and attendance will be updated.
Lecture Notifications
Before a lecture of a particular course students who had registered to that course will get
notifications regarding lecture,lecture time,lecture duration and lecture room
Student Registration
Student will registered to the system via the website.This process will done by an
admin.Student details including fingerprint will be taken into the system.
Course Registration
Beginning of the each semester registered students can do the course registration via the
website or the app
Automated Timetable
Admin will initially enter the time table details (date,time,course,lecture room,lecturer) to
the system via website.After that before each lecture students will get notifications via
the mobile app
Attendance Review
Students can see their attendance percentage,daily attendance details via the mobile
app.Lecturers can see their students' attendance for lab sessions and lecture sessions via
the website.
UI Design - Website
UI Design - App
Final Hardware Device
Power On
Power Off
Keypad
Setting the course code
Selection Menu
Selecting modes such as course registration,attendance marking for the
device
RFID sensing area
Fingerprint Scanner
LCD display
Displaying student details after making the attendance
Hardware Components Used
1. ATmega328P microcontroller
Operating Voltage: 1.8V-5.5V
Flash Program Memory: 32 kbytes
EEPROM Data Memory: 1 kbytes
I/O Pins: 23
SPI and I²C Master and Slave Support
USART Support
External Oscillator: up to 20MHz
2. ESP8266 microcontroller
Operating Voltage: 3.3V
Flash Memory: 4 MB
EEPROM Data Memory: 1 kbytes
Digital I/O Pins : 16
SPI and I²C Support
USART Support
PCB Antenna
Integrated TCP/IP Protocol Stack
External Oscillator: up to 80 MHz
3. R307 Fingerprint Module
Interfacing
UART -> for microcontrollers/ARM processors
USB 2.0 ->for computers
Software serial -> to use other digital pins
Reliability
Flash memory for saving fingerprint templates -> Avoids data loss in
power failures
Power Usage
Operating on 3.3v or 5v
Sensing circuitry consumes 5µA(very low)
4. RC522 RFID Module
Operating voltage: 2.5V to 3.3V
Communication : SPI, I2C protocol, UART
Maximum Data Rate: 10Mbps
Maximum Read Range: 5cm
Current Consumption: 13-26mA
5. Keypad & Port Expander(PCF8574P)
4x4 keypad -> 8 pins(wastage of pins)
Port expander
Pin usage reduces to 2 pins
Uses I2C protocol
6. 16x2 LCD Dispaly & Port Expander(PCF8574P)
LCD module - > 11 pins(wastage of pins)
Port expander
Spi -> i2c Conversion
Pin usage reduces to 2 pins/li>
7. Rechargeable battery(Li-Po)
Output voltage - > 12v
Capacity - > 2500mAh
Circuit Diagrams
PCB design
Protocols
Software Testing
Integration Testing
Integration testing is a level of software testing
where individual units / components are combined and
tested as a group. The purpose of this level of testing is to expose faults in the interaction
between
integrated units. Test drivers and test stubs are used to assist in Integration Testing.
Spring Boot Application Architecture
Spring Boot Application has a 3 Tier Architecture with
Controller, Service and Persistence Layer.
When we talk about integration testing for a spring boot application, it is all about running an
application in ApplicationContext and run tests. Spring Framework does have a dedicated test module
for integration testing. It is known as spring-test. If we are using spring-boot, then we need to
use spring-boot-starter-test which will internally use spring-test and other dependent libraries.
Example :- Adding a Lecture room
Results
Unit Testing - API
UNIT TESTING, also known as COMPONENT TESTING, is
a level of
software testing where individual units / components of a software are tested. The purpose is to
validate that
each unit of the software performs as designed.
Example :- Lecture Attendance Percentage Update
Results
UI Testing - Mobile App
In     UI TESTING, test runs on a device or an emulator.
In the background, your app will be installed and then a testing app will
also be installed which will control your app, lunching it and running UI
tests as needed
Example :- User Login
First Student will enter the username .
Then he/she will close the keyboard.Next, student will enter the password.
After that, he/she will close the keyboard again.
Finally, student will preform click button.
Programme
Result
After Running the Test, Mobile app's Login UI will redirect to corresponding user's home page.
Performance Testing - Website
website performance, was measured using
Web.dev
site.Performance details are as follows.
Results
Summary Report-Software Testing
Feature / Unit
Functionality
Tools
Results
1
Backend Validations
Registration number and Email were tested for proper pattern with different inputs
JUnit
Given Registration number and Email should have proper pattern for user registration
2
Frontend Validations
Frontend forms were tested with different set of inputs.
Jest and Enzyme
Forms can not submit without proper inputs
3
Joins in the database
After Course registration of a student, Course and Student and Attendance Collection
details were tested.
Course and Lecturer collections was tested
Course and TimeTable collections were tested
JUnit
Attendance details were join correctly with Course and the Student
Lecturer collection joins correctly with course collection.
Course collection joins correctly with Timetable collection
4
Lecture Attendance
Tested whether correct present days,absent days and attendance percentages of student is
calculated after adding attendance of a lecture by hardware device
JUnit
Attendance details are correctly calculated and stored in the database.
5
UI Testing in Mobile App
Mobile App UI s were tested with different user inputs.
Button clicks were checked with different pressed times to see output
Expresso
Forms can not submit without proper inputs
Only registered students can log in
No matter which time duration button was pressed.It gives the correct function after button was released.
6
Performance Testing in website
Test the performance of the website by metrics such as
first paint and time to interactive to determine lag.
Test the HTTPS usage to correct image aspect ratios.
Check for best practices to ensure site is discoverable.
Check for common issues that may prevent users from accessing website content.
Web.dev
performance is quite low the following reasons may be possible
Usage of unencoded images
Bad aspect ratios of images
Bad API response time
Accessibility and Best practices are at a good level
SEO is very high because website is hosted in AWS and AWS is take care of SEO
Hardware Testing
Unit Testing
Every Component (Fingerprint,RFID module,SD card module,
...) should be tested for proper functionality.
Sensor
What will be Tested
Importance
1
RFID sensor
Test the results according to the environment in which the tag is being read.
Test the distance range and the orientation of the tag.
Accuracy of identifying the tags should be high
2
Fingerprint sensor
Ability to scan a fingerprint.
Test the tolerance level of the sensor.
Accuracy of identifying the fingerprints should be high
3
Push Buttons
Debouncing of push buttons.
To improve UX with debouncing of push buttons
4
LCD Display
Test the screen clearness of the LCD display under different light conditions
LCD display screen must be clear to use the hardware device.
Letters and numbers must be clearly visible
5
SD Card module
Test the ability to create files in unique names
Test the ability to write and delete files
Test the ability to delete files
To properly handle the connection failure or power failure conditions
Testing Power Supplies
After soldering testing power supplies one by one
Main power input(Battery)
check ripple voltages (using oscillator)
Is noise acceptable
Micro Controller circuit
checking connectivity (using Oscilloscope or Logic probe)
check the basic functioning
Sensors
checking connectivity
check the basic functioning
Cloud Deployment
Demonstration
Website
Mobile App
Hardware Device - Part 01
Hardware Device - Part 02
Budget
Future Developments & Plans
develop mobile app for ios platform
Introduce the product into ,
Universities
Post graduate institutes
Technical schools
We are 3rd year Computer Engineering Students of University of Peradeniya
Eranadana Wijerathna
Computer Engineering Undergraduate
Saubhagya Munasinghe
Computer Engineering Undergraduate
Nuwan Piyarathna
Computer Engineering Undergraduate
Visit Our Github Repository
Visit Now
Contacts
Nuwan Harsha
nuwan.harshamatrix@gmail.com
Saubhagya Munasinghe
sm201211d@gmail.com
Erandana Wijerathna
erandanawijerathna@gmail.com
Home
Solution
Services
Design
website
app
hardware device
Cloud Deployment
Testing
Software Testing
Hardware Testing
Demonstration
Budget
Future Developments
Contact